The regression coefficients were estimated by MM-estimator with bisquare psy-function [1] (for all of the linear regression analyses). We used the multiple imputations by chained equation (MICE) method [2] to estimate the regression coefficients. The patterns of missingness are shown in Supplemental Figure S1 (labeled "NA" on the x-axis) and Supplemental Figure S2 (the right column of each plot). The contour of two-dimensional probability density was drawn based on a kernel density estimate with the Gaussian kernel with bandwidth selected by the "solve-the equation" estimator [3]. The linear relationship between the ESSDAI score and the levels of antibodies against the two respective subtypes of Ro/SS-A antigen were analyzed by MM-estimator with bisquare psy-function.

We compared the odds of anti-Ro60 positivity between the positivity of ACA and that of anti-Ro52 by using the ratio of the two odds ratios (the ratio of ORs). The null hypothesis that the ratio is 1 was tested via a permutation test of anti-Ro60 positivity. We assessed the associations between markedly elevated anti-Ro52 (>500 U/ml) and each of the clinical manifestation by determining the OR, and the statistical significance of each association was tested by Fisher's exact test. We evaluated the associations between respective clinical factors and the concentration of antibodies against the two respective subtypes of Ro/SS-A antigen by determining the maximal information coefficient[4]. The null hypothesis of independence between respective clinical factors and the concentration was tested by a permutation test. The odds of positivity in respective characteristics given the concentration titer of anti-Ro52 were evaluated with the area under curve (AUC) of a receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve. The confidence intervals of sensitivity and specificity were obtained from 2,000 bootstrap samplings. Hypothesis testing was conducted with the significance level of 0.05 without adjustment for multiple comparisons. All statistical analyses were conducted under the R environments[5] ver. 3.6.0, especially the robustbase package [6] ver. 0.95-5 in the robust regression, the mice package [7] ver. 3.5.0 in the multiple imputation, and pROC package [8] ver. 1.15.3. 


1. Koller M and Stahel WA. Stahel. Sharpening Wald-type inference in robust regression for small samples. Comput. Stat. Data Anal. 2011;55, 2504–15.
2. Buuren S, van Groothuis-Oudshoorn K. mice: Multivariate imputation by chained equations in R. J. Stat. Softw. 1–68 (2010).
3. Venables WN and Ripley BD. Modern Applied Statistics with S (Statistics and Computing). (Springer, 2002).
4. Reshef DN, Reshef YA, Finucane HK et al. Detecting novel associations in large data sets. Science 2001 ;334, 1518–24 .
5. R Core Team. R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing. 2018.
6. Maechler M, Rousseeuw P, Croux C et al. robustbase: Basic Robust Statistics. 2019.
7. Robin X, Turck N, Hainard A et al. pROC: an open-source package for R and S+ to analyze and compare ROC curves. BMC Bioinformatics 2011;12:77.

